Oshift how view proxy logs (#816)
UKCloud/documentation: articles/openshift/oshift-how-view-proxy-logs.md

---
title: How to view proxy logs in a multi-network OpenShift cluster | UKCloud Ltd
description: Explains how to view the logs of the squid proxy in your cluster
services: openshift
author: Kieran O'Neill
reviewer:
lastreviewed: 03/12/2019

toc_rootlink: How To
toc_sub1:
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:
toc_title: View proxy logs in a multi-network OpenShift cluster
toc_fullpath: How To/oshift-how-view-proxy-logs.md
toc_mdlink: oshift-how-view-proxy-logs.md
---

# How to view proxy logs in a multi-network OpenShift cluster

## Overview

UKCloud for OpenShift enables you to develop, deploy, and manage digital and container-based applications seamlessly across local physical or virtual environments, with full portability to and from UKCloud.

> This article explains how you can view the connection logs generated by the squid proxy in your OpenShift cluster.

Reviewer: Might be helpful here to explain why a customer would want to do this:

This article explains how you can view the connection logs generated by the squid proxy in your OpenShift cluster to identify potential connection issues, such as ...

### Prerequisites

> Your OpenShift cluster must have access to multiple networks, be version 3.11 or later, and must have proxy logging enabled. Any OpenShift clusters deployed from November 2019 will have proxy logging enabled. If you have an older OpenShift cluster and would like proxy logging enabled, raise a request on the UKCloud Portal for this functionality.

Reviewer 2: We should retrofit to all clusters - update this line to either remove the bit about raising a request or to state that we're doing it automatically.

## Viewing logs

> In multi-network 3.11 clusters, we run a squid proxy on the control plane load balancers to access Red Hat's container registry `registry.redhat.io`. The proxy also allows you to hit internet endpoints from community network nodes, providing you pass the correct variables to your pods and have whitelisted the endpoint. You may inadvertently be traversing the proxy where you do not want to or attempting to hit endpoints that are not whitelisted, which will cause you to get 403 forbidden errors. 

Reviewer: Possibly add a bit to the end of this paragraph to explain that the logs help identify these issues:

You may inadvertently be traversing the proxy where you do not want to or attempting to hit endpoints that are not whitelisted, which will cause you to get 403 forbidden errors. The proxy logs include information about these errors.

> In multinetwork 3.11 clusters we run a squid proxy on the controlplane loadbalancers in order to authenticate to Red Hats container registry 'registry.redhat.io'. This also allows you to hit internet endpoints from community network nodes providing you pass the correct variables to your pods and have whitelisted the endpoint. You may inadvertently be traversing the proxy where you do not want to or attempting to hit endpoints that are not whitelisted which will cause you to get 403 forbidden errors. 

Reviewer 3: "authenticate" - would be better to say "access"
"Red Hats" should be "Red Hat's"

"This also allows you" should be "The proxy also allows you" because it isn't "accessing Red Hat's container registry that lets you hit internet endpoints.

Author: Changes made

> In multi-network 3.11 clusters, we run a squid proxy on the control plane load balancers to access Red Hat's container registry `registry.redhat.io`. The proxy also allows you to hit internet endpoints from community network nodes, providing you pass the correct variables to your pods and have whitelisted the endpoint. You may inadvertently be traversing the proxy where you do not want to or attempting to hit endpoints that are not whitelisted, which will cause you to get 403 forbidden errors. The proxy logs contain information about these errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In multi-network 3.11 clusters, we run a proxy service on the control plane load balancers to access Red Hat's container registry `registry.redhat.io` during the deployment and scaling process. The proxy also allows you to enable controlled access to internet endpoints from all nodes, providing you pass the correct variables to your pods and have whitelisted the endpoint. You may inadvertently be traversing the proxy where you do not want to or attempting to hit endpoints that are not whitelisted, which will cause you to get 403 forbidden errors. The proxy logs contain information about these errors.
```

> As a customer, while you don't have access to the logs on the control plane load balancers, we send them through to a set of fluentd pods in a project called `squid-showback`. These logs are then forwarded on to the clusters' Aggregated Logging and you can view them in the Kibana dashboard in the `openshift-logging` project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a customer, while you don't have direct access to the proxy logs, we send them through to a set of fluentd pods in a project called `proxy-showback`. These logs are then forwarded on to the clusters' aggregated logging and you can view them in the Kibana dashboard in the `openshift-logging` project, usually available on kibana.<cluster_domain_suffix>
```
We'll need to update the code obviously, but its should be less specific about the technology and more about the purpose.

> Set a filter of `kubernetes_namespace_name: "squid-showback"` to filter only for the logs from the pods receiving the proxy logs and show only the message. You can then query the message field for the particular IP/endpoint you're looking for. From here you can see if it's being denied and update the whitelist as needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set a filter of `kubernetes_namespace_name: "proxy-showback"` to filter only for the logs from the pods receiving the proxy logs and show only the message. You can then query the message field for the particular IP/endpoint you're looking for. From here you can see if it's being denied and update the whitelist as needed.
```

Can this also be updated to proxy instead of squid please?

### Prerequisites

Your OpenShift cluster must have access to multiple networks, be version 3.11 or later, and must have proxy logging enabled. Any OpenShift clusters deployed from November 2019 will have proxy logging enabled.

## Viewing logs

> In multi-network 3.11 clusters, we run a proxy service on the control plane load balancers to access Red Hat's container registry `registry.redhat.io` during the deployment and scaling process. The proxy also allows you to enable controlled access to internet endpoints from all nodes, providing you pass the correct variables to your pods and have whitelisted the endpoint. You may inadvertently be traversing the proxy where you do not want to or attempting to hit endpoints that are not whitelisted, which will cause you to get 403 forbidden errors. The proxy logs contain information about these errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In multi-network 3.11 clusters, we run a proxy service on the control plane load balancers to access Red Hat's container registry `registry.redhat.io` during the deployment and scaling process. The proxy also allows you to enable controlled access to internet endpoints from all nodes, providing you pass the correct variables to your pods and have whitelisted the endpoint. You may inadvertently be traversing the proxy when you do not want to or attempting to hit endpoints that are not whitelisted, which will cause you to get 403 forbidden messages in the logs. The proxy logs contain information about these denials.
```

Sorry another minor change - they aren't errors really after all.
